---
title: "Atomistic Insight into Changes in the Vibrational Spectrum of Ionic Liquids under External Electric Field"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-1-Vibrational-Spectrum
date: 2020-03-19
venue: 'Acta Physico-Chimica Sinica'
---

Wenqiong Chen, <b>Yongii Guan</b>, Jiao Zhang, Junjie Pei, Xiaoping Zhang, Youquan Deng. <b>Acta Physico-Chimica Sinica</b>, 2020, 36(X), 2001004.

Times cited: 0 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; [Download paper PDF here](https://yongjiguan.github.io/files/2020-1.pdf)

## Abstract
In this study, the influence of an external electric field (EEF) on the vibrational spectra of an imidazolium-based ionic liquid, 1-ethyl-3methylimidazolium hexfluorophosphate (EMIMPF<sub>6</sub>), in the wavenumber range from 0 to 4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> was probed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation at 350 K. The results showed that the experimentally obtained spectrum could be reproduced by the calculated vibrational bands (VBs) in the wavenumber range from 400 to 4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> using MD simulation without any EEF. When the EEF applied increased from 0 to 9 V·nm<sup>-1</sup>, the VB intensities at 50.0 and 199.8 cm<sup>-1</sup> increased continuously and then tended to be saturated, while the VB intensities from 400 to 4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> decrease and eventually disappear. Moreover, the VB at 50.0 cm<sup>-1</sup> was red-shifted to ~16.7 cm<sup>-1</sup> and then increased to 33.3 cm<sup>-1</sup> as the EEF was increased from 0 to 2 and then to 3 V·nm<sup>-1</sup> and higher. The VB at 3396.6 cm<sup>-1</sup> was redshifted to ~16.7 cm<sup>-1</sup> and then increased to 33.3 cm<sup>-1</sup> as the EEF was increased from 0 to 3 and then to 4 V·nm<sup>-1</sup> and higher; however, the position of other VBs from 0 to 4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> remain almost unchanged. Based on further analysis of the simulation results and previously reported studies, for the VB at 50.0 cm<sup>-1</sup>, the increasing EEF enhances the polarity between cations and anions; thus, the difference in dipole moment between the cations and the anions increases, which continually increases the VB intensity until saturation is reached. For the VB at 199.8 cm<sup>-1</sup>, the increasing EEF intensifies the twisting of the ethyl chain, which enhances the VB intensity until saturation. For the other VBs from 400 to 4000 cm<sup>-1</sup>, the increasing EEF makes the orientation of the cations and anions in EMIMPF<sub>6</sub> more consistent; thus, it can be conjectured that such consistent orientation may weaken the VB intensities and can even make them disappear. The redshift of VB at 50.0 cm<sup>-1</sup> may occur because the EEF breaks the distribution of the electrostatic field inside EMIMPF<sub>6</sub> and then weakens the interactions between cations and anions. The redshift of VB at 3396.6 cm<sup>-1</sup> may be attributed to the EEF weakening the stretching vibration of the hydrogen bonds formed between the N atoms and the acidic hydrogen atoms on the cationic imidazolium rings. The EEF does not change the positions of the other VBs because the inherent stretching, bending, and rocking vibration of functional groups are not affected by the EEF.

Vibrational spectroscopy is a powerful tool for studying the microstructure of liquids, and anatomizing the nature of the vibrational spectrum (VS) is promising for investigating changes in the properties of liquid structures under external conditions. In this study, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have been performed to explore changes in the VS of 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate ([Emim] [PF<sub>6</sub>]) ionic liquid (IL) under an external electric field (EEF) ranging from 0 to 10 V&#183;nm<sup>-1</sup> at 350 K. First, the vibrational spectra for[Emim] [PF<sub>6</sub>] IL as well as its cation and anion are separately obtained, and the peaks are strictly assigned. The results demonstrate that the VS calculated by MD simulation can well reproduce the main characteristic peaks in the experimentally measured spectrum. Then, the vibrational spectra of the IL under various EEFs from 0 to 10 V&#183;nm<sup>-1</sup> are investigated, and the intrinsic origin of the changes in the vibrational bands (VBs) at 50, 183, 3196, and 3396 cm<sup>-1</sup> is analyzed. Our simulation results indicate that the intensities of the VBs at 50 and 183 cm<sup>-1</sup> are enhanced. In addition, the VB at 50 cm<sup>-1</sup> is redshifted by about 16 cm<sup>-1</sup> as the EEF is varied from 0 to 2 V&#183;nm<sup>-1</sup>, and the redshift wavenumber increases to 33 cm<sup>-1</sup> as the EEF is increased to 3 V&#183;nm<sup>-1</sup>and beyond. However, the intensities of the VBs at 3196 and 3396 cm<sup>-1</sup> show an obvious decrease. Meanwhile, the VB at 3396 cm<sup>-1</sup> is redshifted by about 16 cm<sup>-1</sup> when the EEF increases to 3 V&#183;nm<sup>-1</sup>, and the redshift increases to 33 cm<sup>-1</sup> with an increase in the EEF beyond 4 V&#183;nm<sup>-1</sup>. The intensity of the VB at 50 cm<sup>-1</sup> increases because of the increase in the total dipole moment of each anion and cation (from 4.34 to 5.46 D), and the redshift is attributed to the decrease in the average interaction energy per ion pair (from -378.7 to -298.0 kJ&#183;mol<sup>-1</sup>) with increasing EEF. The intensity of the VB at 183 cm<sup>-1</sup> increases on account of the more consistent orientations for cations in the system with increasing EEF. The VB at 3196 cm<sup>-1</sup> weakens visibly because a greater number of hydrogen atoms appear around the carbon atoms on the methyl/ethyl side chains and the vibrations of the corresponding carbon-hydrogen bonds are suppressed under the action of the EEF. Furthermore, the intensity of the VB at 3396 cm<sup>-1</sup> decreases due to the decrease in the intermolecular <sup>+</sup>C-H…F<sup>-</sup> hydrogen bonds (HBs), while the relaxation effect that is beneficial for the formation of HBs simultaneously exists in the system under the varying EEF, thus causing a redshift of the VB at 3396 cm<sup>-1</sup>.

## Recommended citation
Wenqiong Chen, <b>Yongii Guan</b>, Jiao Zhang, Junjie Pei, Xiaoping Zhang, Youquan Deng. Atomistic Insight into Changes in the Vibrational Spectrum of Ionic Liquids under External Electric Field. <b>Acta Physico-Chimica Sinica</b>, 2020, 36(X), 2001004.